Resumption (#37)
quicwg/quic-v2: draft-ietf-quic-v2.md

processing a packet of that version from the server. Servers can apply original
version 0-RTT packets to a connection without additional considerations.

# TLS Resumption

TLS session tickets are specific to the QUIC version of the connection that
provided them. Clients MUST NOT use a session ticket from a QUICv1 connection

> to initiate a QUICv2 connection, or vice versa.

Reviewer: 👍 I considered suggesting that you make this more generic: "Clients MUST only use a ticket for a QUIC version in which the ticket was received", but you aren't speaking for QUIC versions other than v1 and v2 here, so this is right.

Author: Aye, there's a pending "considerations for v1" section in the VN draft where this could live, but I'm happy to have this here as well.

> Servers MAY validate the originating version of any session ticket and reject

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Servers SHOULD validate the originating version of any session ticket and reject
```

Reviewer: Here's the hard part...

```suggestion
Servers MUST validate the originating version of any session ticket and not resume from
```

The easy bit: rejection isn't really the right term to use.  It's not resuming.

Second, this is where the rubber hits the road.  The general strategy in TLS is to allow clients to attempt ticket use anywhere, on the understand that tickets won't be accepted by anything but the correct server.

Insisting on clients doing the right thing is fairly easy, so I'm OK with the "MUST" above, but if you are going to do this right, the "MUST" really belongs on the server side.

As for concerns @huitema raised about being able to implement this, I don't see how you can avoid having the machinery necessary to implement some sort of application/transport state if you are supporting arbitrary application protocols - or 0-RTT.  As soon as you do 0-RTT, you need some way to reclaim state.  And many application protocols need some way to carry state across resumptions.  HTTP does.  You might be able to avoid it with very careful rotation of STEKs and other such tricks, but carrying state really is the easiest way.

Reviewer 2: MT convinced me, let's make this a MUST.

> any ticket issued from a different version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any ticket issued from a different version. This results in falling back to a
full TLS handshake, without 0-RTT.
```

> Note that during compatible version negotiation, any resulting session ticket

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After compatible version negotiation, any resulting session ticket
```
